1.1 Adding an item
 1) Edit itype.h.  Change the enum item_id and insert a unique identifier for
    your new item type. Be sure to put it among similar items.
 2) Edit itypedef.cpp.  Macros are used for all item types, and they are pretty
    self-explanatory.  Be ABSOLUTELY sure that you insert the macro at the same
    point in the list as you inserted the identifier in item_id!
 3) Your item type is now valid, but won't be spawned.  If you want it to be
    spawned among similar items,  edit mapitemsdef.cpp.  Find the appropriate
    array(s), and insert the identifier for your item (e.g. itm_aspirin).  Make
    sure it comes in before the NULL at the end of the list.
 5) Some items, like tools or food, also take an iuse::function reference.
    Edit iuse.h and include the function in the class declaration; then edit
    iuse.cpp and define your function.  Functions may be shared among different
    item types.

1.2 Adding a monster
 1) Edit mtype.h.  Change the enum mon_id and insert a unique identifier for
    your new monster type.  Be sure to put it among similar monsters.
 2) Edit montypedef.cpp.  A macro is used for monsters and it is pretty
    straightforward (Any of this ring a bell?).  Be ABSOLUTELY sure that you
    insert the macro at the same point in the list as your inserted the
    identifier in mon_id!
 3) Your monster type is now valid, but won't be spawned.  If you want it to be
    spawned among similar monsters, edit mongroupdef.cpp.  Find the appropriate
    array, and insert the identifier for your monster (e.g, mon_zombie).  Make
    sure it comes in before the NULL at the end of the list.
 4) If you want your monster to drop items, edit monitemsdef.cpp.  Make a new
    array for your monster type with all the map item groups it may carry, and a
    chance value for each.
 5) Your monster may have a special attack, a monattack::function reference.
    Edit monattack.h and include the function in the class definition; then
    edit monattack.cpp and define your function.  Functions may be shared among
    different monster types.  Be aware that the function should contain a
    statement that the monster uses to decide whether or not to use the attack,
    and if they do, should reset the monster's attack timer.
 7) Just like attacks, some monsters may have a special function called when
    they die.  This works the same as attacks, but the relevent files are
    mondeath.h and mondeath.cpp.
1.3 Adding structures to the map
  Most "regular" buildings are spawned in cities (large clusters of buildings which are located rather close to each other).
  In file omdata.h in the enum oter_id structure define names (code identifiers) for your building.
  If you want your building to be displayed at overmap in different orientations, you should add 4 identifiers for each orientation (south, east, west and north correspondingly).
  In the same file in structure const oter_t oterlist[num_ter_types]
  we should define how these buildings will be displayed, how much they obscure vision and which extras set they have. For example:
      {"mil. surplus",  '^',	c_white,	5, build_extras, false, false},
      {"mil. surplus",  '>',	c_white,	5, build_extras, false, false},
      {"mil. surplus",  'v',	c_white,	5, build_extras, false, false},
      {"mil. surplus",  '<',	c_white,	5, build_extras, false, false}
  Comments at the beginning of this structure are rather useful.
  In the file mapgen.cpp find the subroutine called draw_map(...);
    there you should find a huge variant operator ("switch")
    where you should put your code defining the new building by adding new case-statement.
  This should be mentioned that most buildings are built on the square SEEX*2 x SEEY*2 tiles.
  If you want your building to be spawned not only in city limits
     you should refer to structures in file omdata.h
     (starting from the line #define OMSPEC_FREQ 7).
     These structures are commented in source code. Add new identifier in enum omspec_id structure before
     NUM_OMSPECS and then add a record in const overmap_special overmap_specials[NUM_OMSPECS] array. For example:
         {ot_toxic_dump,	   0,  5, 15, -1, mcat_null, 0, 0, 0, 0, &omspec_place::wilderness,0}
  The comments given in source code to structure struct overmap_special explains the meaning of these constants in the example above.


	FAQ
Q: What the heck is up with the map objects?

A: The pertinent map objects are submap, mapbuffer, map, and overmap.
The submap contains the actual map data, in SEEXxSEEY chunks.
   Vehicles and Spawns are stored in vectors because they're relatively sparse.
Submaps live in the single global mapbuffer, MAPBUFFER.
Map encapsulates the area around the player that is currently active.
   It contains an array of MAPSIZE * MAPSIZE submap pointers called grid.
      This is a 2D array, but is mapped to a 1D array for (questionable) indexing purposes.
   When the player moves from one submap to another, map::shift() is called.
      It moves the pointers in grid to keep the player centered.
      The leading edge of grid is populated by map::load()
         If the submap has been visited before, it's loaded from MAPBUFFER
         Otherwise a 2x2 chunk of submaps is generated based on the corresponding overmap square type.
An overmap encapsulates the large-scale structure of a map
   Such as location and layout of cities, forests, rivers, roads, etc...
   There are an arbitrary number of overmaps
   Additional overmaps are generated as the player enters new areas.

