Pre-emptively Answered Questions:

- How do I use manual turrets?
Stand on the same tile that the turret is on, have your hands free, and "f"ire it.

- How do I make automated turrets?
Craft a turret chassis (Electronics, Mechanics, and Fabrication must be at 5 to see the recipe) and install it. You can then install most non-pistol weapons as an automated turret.

- What's the difference between "<gun> turret" and "automated <gun>"?
Turrets have a built-in cargo where you can drop appropriate ammo to load it. Automated guns do not have a cargo slot, you must install an appropriate ammunition rack (either a small metal tank or a cargo carrier for large ammo). Ammunition racks are loaded like fuel tanks, but only accept the basic ammunition type.

- My automated turrets won't fire!
Make sure turrets are enabled by using your vehicle controls.
Make sure turrets have access to appropriate ammo. Ammunition racks can supply all turrets on the vehicle with the right ammo. Turrets that use gas or battery power need appropriate containers.
Make sure to check "Configure Individual Turrets" in the vehicle control menu.
Turrets all have different ranges at which they'll shoot, the enemy might still be out of range.
Explosive turrets won't fire if the target is too close to the vehicle.

- I don't understand the individual turret options.
The squares next to the turret's name show its setting.
Blank means it will not fire. 
"1" means it will only fire a single shot (If it has a burst option). 
"B" means it will fire full bursts.
"m" means it will only fire if you control it by using "f"ire while having free hands while being on the same tile as the vehicle's controls.
"M" means the same as "m", but does burst fire instead of single shots. 
If you're using a turret that doesn't have burst fire, it will be blank or "x" for off/on.
Turrets that are manually fired won't appear on the configuration menu.

- Blob parts? Vortex parts? Diamond parts?
For blob parts you need cooking at level 6 to see the first recipe, 7 to see them all. You also need fabrication at 5.
For vortex parts, a mechanics skill of 8 to see all recipes.
For diamond parts you need fabrication at 10 and access to a CVD machine.
Everything else is up for you to find.

- I have a question that this doesn't answer./I found a bug./I have a suggestion.
You can find the forum thread here: http://smf.cataclysmdda.com/index.php?topic=8060.0
Also, make sure, that if you downloaded the new version from the forum, that you delete the old blazemod folder first. Bugs may arise from duplicated files.